# NGS_Analysis
To categorize millions upon millions of genomic sequences, data scientists use high- throughput (HT) sequencing to analyze RNA-sequences for a given genome annotation. The HT approach has become a mainstream quantitative tool to measure and analyze various gene expression in a wide variety of species in any given condition. The caveat to sequencing such data is that HT sequencing inevitably generates very large, complex data. To comprehend and analyze such data sets requires extensive computational power that can be taxing on both the hardware and servers/software. Herein we use HT RNA sequencing to identify what genes show strong response to salt conditions in a strain of cotton known as Gossypium Hirsutum. We achieve the objective using three methods of transcriptome analysis; HISAT2, Stringtie and DESeq2. HISAT2 (hierarchical indexing for spliced alignment of transcripts, version 2), and Stringtie are open- source software tools for detailed quantitative analysis of data generated from RNA sequencing experiments. DESeq2 is an R program that takes the output of HISAT2 and Stringtie alignment together to quantitatively visualize the result. These software programs will allow us to perform sequence alignments, report known genes as well as salt-sensitive genes and de novo genes, and finally generate a generalized linear model to report genes that differentially expressed. The protocol described in Pertea ET. Al 2016 shows the necessary process large set of raw sequencing reads. This in turn creates lists of gene transcripts that identify differentially expressed genes and expression levels. Comparative analyses are performed with STAR alignment and Trinity software.
